# **CNAME vs Alias.**

* AWS resources such as a Load Balancer or CloudFront will expose an AWS hostname for clients to connect through... i.e. "1234.us-east-2.elb.amazonaws.com".
* We may want to map our load balancer host name to a domain that we own... i.e. "myapp.mydomain.com".

We have 2 options:

* **CNAME:**
    * Points a hostname to another hostname (i.e. app.mydomain.com -> myapp.mydomain.com).
    * **These are ONLY applicable for a NON-ROOT DOMAIN, i.e. myapp.mydomain.com.**
    * Not applicable to root domain (i.e. mydomain.com).
* **Alias:**
    * Points a hostname to an AWS resource (i.e. app.mydomain.com -> something.amazonaws.com).
    * **These work for both the ROOT DOMAIN and NON-ROOT DOMAINS (i.e. mydomain.com & myapp.mydomain.com).**
    * These are free of charge.
    * They also have native health checks.

## **Alias Records.**

* Maps a hostname to an AWS Resource.
* An extension of the DNS functionality.
* Automatically recognizes changes in the resource's IP address.
* Unlike CNAME, it can be used for the top node of a DNS namespace (called the Zone Apex)... i.e. "mydomain.com".
* Alias Record is always of type A/AAAA for AWS resources (IPv4 / IPv6).
* You cannot set the TTL.

## **Common Alias Targets.**

* Elastic Load Balancers.
* CloudFront Distributions.
* API Gateways.
* Elastic Beanstalk Environments.
* S3 Websites.
* VPC Interface Endpoints.
* Global Accelerator.
* Route 53 record hosted in the same zone.
* **You CANNOT set an Alias record for an EC2 DNS name.**