# **Routing Policies.**

* Used to define how Route 53 responds to DNS queries.
* We need to not get confused by the word "Routing":
    * It's not the same as Load Balancer routing which routes traffic to EC2 instances.
    * DNS does not route any traffic, it only responds to DNS queries, this is what we route.
* Route 53 supports the following Routing Policies:
    * Simple.
    * Weighted.
    * Failover.
    * Latency Based.
    * Geolocation.
    * Multi-Value Answer.
    * Geoproximity (using the Route 53 Traffic Flow feature).

## **Simple Routing Policy.**

* Typically, we only route traffic to a single resource.
* Can specify multiple values in the same record.
* If multiple values are returned, a random one is chosen by the **client**.
* When Alias is enabled, specify only one AWS resource.
* Can't be associated with Health Checks.

## **Weighted Routing Policy.**

* Control the % of the requests that go to each specific resource.
* i.e. we can assign 70% of routing traffic to one record, 20% to another and the final 10% to another.
* Assign each record a relative weight.
    * traffic (%) = weight of specific record / sum of all weights of records.
* DNS records must have the same name and type.
* Can be associated with health checks.
* Use cases include:
    * Load balancing between regions.
    * Testing new application versions.
* **We can assign a weight of 0 to a record to stop sending traffic to a specific resource.**

**Below is a useful snippet out-lining the difference between Route 53 weighted DNS routing and an Elastic Load Balancer (ELB) as, on the surface, they look very similar in what they do.**

*"ELB distributes traffic among Multiple Availability Zone but not to multiple Regions. Route53 can distribute traffic among multiple Regions. In short, ELBs are intended to load balance across EC2 instances in a single region whereas DNS load-balancing (Route53) is intended to help balance traffic across regions."*

*"Use both Route53 and ELB: Route53 provides integration with ELB. You can use both Route53 and ELB in your AWS infrastructure. If you have AWS resources in multiple regions, you can use Route53 to balance the load among those regions. Inside the region, you can use ELB to load balance among the instances running in various Availability Zones."*