# **Route 53 - Health Checks.**

* HTTP Health Checks are only used for public resources.
* Health Checks are important as they allow automated DNS failover. There are 3 different types of health checks in Route 53:
    * Health checks that monitor an endpoint (applications, servers, AWS resources).
    * Health checks that monitor other health checks (called Calculated Health Checks).
    * Health checks that monitor CloudWatch alarms (giving a lot more control). Some examples include, throttles on DynamoDB, alarms on RDS, custom metrics etc. (useful for private resources).
* **Health Checks are integrated with CloudWatch metrics.**

## **Monitoring an endpoint.**

* Health Checkers exists in regions all around the world.
* They will send HTTP requests to the Load Balancer, if the health checker receives a 200 response back, that means the endpoint is healthy inside that region.
* **About 15 global Health Checkers will check the endpoint health.**
    * The default Healthy/Unhealthy threshold is 3 2xx or 3xx HTTP responses.
    * You can set an interval for the Health Check (default is 30 seconds).
    * Supported protocols include HTTP, HTTPS and TCP.
    * As a general rule of thumb, if 18% or greater Health Checkers report the endpoint as healthy, Route 53 considers the endpoint as Healthy, otherwise it is defined as Unhealthy.
    * Ability to choose which locations you want Route 53 to use.
* Health Checks pass only when the endpoint responds with 2xx or 3xx status codes.
* Health Checks can be setup to pass or fail based on the text in the first **5120 bytes** of the response (if it's a text-based response).
* Configure your router/firewall to allow incoming requests from Route 53 Health Checkers.

## **Calculated Health Checks.**

* Combine the results of multiple Health Checks into a single Health Check.
* You can use OR, AND or NOT conditional statements in defining the result.
* Can monitor up to 256 Child Health Checks.
* Can specify how many of the Health Checks need to pass to make the parent pass.
* Use case - performing maintenance to your website without causing all the health checks to fail.

## **Private Hosted Zones.**

* Route 53 Health Checkers exist outside of the VPC in which our resources operate.
* They cannot access private endpoints (i.e. private VPC's or on-premise resources).
* To get around this, we can create a **CloudWatch Metric** and associate a **CloudWatch Alarm**.
* We can then create a Health Check that checks the alarm itself.