# **EC2.**

What is AWS EC2?

* EC2 is one of the most popular of AWS' offerings.
* EC2 stands for Elastic Compute Cloud = Infrastructure as a Service.
* It has the following capabilities:
    * Renting virtual machines (EC2).
    * Storing data on virtual drives (EBS).
    * Distributing load across machines (ELB).
    * Scaling the services using an auto-scaling group (ASG).

***Knowing how to work EC2 is fundamental to understanding how the cloud works.***

## **Sizing & config. options.**

The following parameters should be considered when using EC2:

* **Which OS to use** - most commonly Linux, but Mac & Windows are also options.
* **How much compute power & how many cores (CPU).**
* **How much RAM we want.**
* **How much storage space?**
    * Network-attached (EBS & EFS).
    * Hardware (EC2 Instance Store).
* **Type of network attached to the instance.**
    * Speed of the card.
    * Public IP Address.
* **Firewall rules & security group.**
* **Bootstrap script** - configured at first launch (EC2 User Data).

## **EC2 User Data.**

* It is possible to bootstrap our instances using an **EC2 User Data** script.
* Bootstrapping means launching commands when a machine starts.
* That script is run only once at the first start of the instance.
* EC2 user data is used to automate boot tasks such as:
    * Installing updates.
    * Installing software.
    * Downloading common files from the internet.
    * Anything else we can think of.
* The EC2 User Data script runs with the root user (i.e. using ```sudo```).

## **EC2 instance types.**

Below are a few examples of EC2 instance types.

|  Instance | vCPU | Memory (GiB) | Storage | Network Performance | EBS Bandwidth (Mbps) |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| t2.micro | 1 | 1 | EBS-Only | Low to Moderate | - |
| t2.micro | 4 | 16 | EBS-Only | Moderate | - |
| cd5.4xlarge | 16 | 32 | 1 x 400 NVMe SSD | Up to 10 Gbps | 4750 |
| r5.16xlarge | 64 | 512 | EBS Only | 20 Gbps | 13600 |
| m5.8xlarge | 32 | 128 | EBS Only | 10 Gbps | 6800 |