# **Security Groups.**

Security groups are fundamental of network security in AWS - they control how traffic is allowed into or out of our EC2 instances.

**Security groups only contain *allow* rules**

**Security groups' rules can reference by *IP* or by *security group.***

Let's take a look at a very basic example.

We are on the public internet (www) & we want to access our EC2 instance.

* Firstly we need to create a security group around our EC2 instance.
* The rules of our security group will define inbound & outbound traffic rules from the public internet to our EC2 instance.

### **Diving a little deeper...**

* Security groups are acting as a firewall on EC2 instances.
* They regulate the following:
    * **Access to ports.**
    * **Authorised IP ranges** - IPv4 & IPv6.
    * **Control of inbound network.**
    * **Control of outbound network.**
* Security groups can be attached to multiple instances.
* They are kocked to a region & VPC combination.
* The security group lives outside the EC2 - if traffic is blocked, the instance won't see it.
* It's good to maintain one separate security group for SSH access.
* If your application is not accessible then it's a security group issue. 
* If your application gives you a "connection refused" error, then it's an application error.
* All inbound traffic is blocked by default.
* All outbound traffic is authrised by default.

## **Classic Ports to know.\***

* 22 = SSH (Secure Shell) - used to log into an EC2 Linux instance.
* 21 = FTP (File Trasfer Protocol) - upload files into a file share.
* 22 = SFTP (Secure File Transfer Protocol) - upload files using SSH.
* 80 = HTTP - access unsecured websites.
* 443 = HTTPS - access secured websites.
* 3389 = RDP (Remote Desktop Protocol) - lob into a Windows instance.