# **Instance Launch Types.\***

## **Instance purchasing options.**

* **On-Demand Instances** - suitable for short workloads, have predictable & standardised pricing.
* **Reserved Instance** - needs to be used for a minimum of 1 year (can mean cost saving if instances are reserved for long periods). There are 3 types of reserved instances:
    * **Reserve Instance** - suitable for longer workloads (think a redshift db).
    * **Convertible Reserved Instances** - suitable for longer workloads but flexible between instance types & sizes.
    * **Scheduled Reserved Instances** - instances that work on a schedule, i.e. Thursday between 3-6pm.
* **Spot Instances** - suitable for really short workloads, often a lot cheaper & less reliable as they can be lost.
* **Dedicated Hosts** - only applicable when you want to book an entire physical server & control the instance placement.

## **EC2 On-Demand.**

* Pay for what you use:
    * Linux or Windows machine - billed per second after the first minute is initiated.
    * All other operating systems are billed per hour.
* Has the highest cost but there is no up-front payment.
* No long-term commitment.

**These instances are recommended for short-term & un-interrupted workloads, where you cannot predict how an application will behave.**

## **EC2 Reserved Instances.**

* Up to 75% discount compared to On-Demand.
* There are the following reservation period options:
    * 1 year = + discount.
    * 3 years = +++ discount.
* There are the following purchasing options:
    * No upfront = + discount.
    * Partial upfront = ++ discount.
    * All upfront = +++ discount.
* You have to reserve a specific instance type.

## **Convertible Reserved Instance.**

* Same benefits as above, however, you can **change the EC2 instance type**.
* Because of this, there is a lower discount offered (up to 54%).

## **Scheduled Reserved Instances.**

* Can be launched within the time window that you reserve the instance for.
* Suitable when you require a fraction of the day / week / month.

## **EC2 Spot Instances.**

* Can get a discount of up to 90% compared to On-Demand.
* These are types of instances that you can lose at any point of time if the max price that you want to pay for the instance is less than the current spot price (as the spot price can change / increase over time).
* Market type pricing structure.
* These instances are the most cost-efficient instances in AWS.

**These instances are recommended for workloads that are resilient to failure, such as:**

* Batch jobs.
* Data analysis.
* Image processing.
* Any distributed workloads (i.e. sharing workloads across servers).
* Workloads with a flexible start & end time.

**They are not suitable / recommended for critical jobs or hosting databases.**

## **EC2 Dedicated Hosts.\***

An Amazon EC2 Dedicated Host is a physical server with EC2 instance capacity fully dedicated to your use. Dedicated hosts can help you address **compliance requirements\*** and **reduce costs\*** by allowing you to **use your existing server-bound software licenses.\***

* Allocated to your account for a 3-year period of reservation.
* More expensive.

**These instances are recommended for hosting software that have complicated licensing models (BYOL - Bring Your Own License). & for companies that have strong regulatory or compliance needs.**

## **EC2 Dedicated Instances.**

* Instances running on hardware that is dedidcated to you or your company.
* May share hardware with other instances in the same account.
* No control over instance placement.