# **EC2 Spot Instance Requests.**

We have already learnt some of the following benefits to spot instances.

* Can get up to a 90% discount compared to On-Demand instances.
* We do this by defining a max spot price and get the current instance whilst the current spot price is less than our max spot price.
    * Hourly spot prices can vary based on offer and capacity.
    * If the current spot price is greater than your max price you can choose to **stop** or **terminate** your instance with a 2 minute grace period.
* There is another strategy to retain your spot instance called a **Spot Block.**
    * This is when you "block" a spot instance during a specified time frame (1 to 6 hours) without interruption & reclaimation from AWS.

Again, the most common use cases for spot instances are for:

* Batch jobs.
* Data analysis.
* Workloads that are resilient to failure.

And should not be considered for:

* Databases.
* Critical jobs.

## **How do we request Spot Instances?**

Consider the following parameters that need to be specified when submitting a spot request:

* The user defined maximum price.
* The desired number of instances.
* The launch specification.
* The request type (is it a one-time - as soon as the request is fulfilled, the request will disappear. Or is it persistent - if an instance does get stopped then our spot request will go back into action).
* Valid from, valid until.

## **Terminating Spot Instances.**

* You can only cancel Spot Instance requests that are in an **open**, **active** or **disabled** state.
* Cancelling a Spot Request **does not** terminate the instances.
* You must first cancel the Spot Request & then terminate the associated Spot Instances.

## **Spot Fleets.\***

**Spot fleets = A set of Spot Instances + On-Demand Instances (optional).**

* The Spot Fleet will try to meet the target capacity with the current price constraints.
    * These can launch from different launch pools (that you can define).
    * i.e. different combinations of instance types, OS's & availability zones.
    * The fleet will then choose the most appropriate given the price constraints.
    * Spot Fleet stops launching instances when reaching max capacity or max cost.
* Define strategies to allocate Spot Instances.\*
    * **lowestPrice** - the pool with the lowest price (good for cost optimisation & short workloads).
    * **diversified** - distributed across all pools (good for availability & longer workloads).
    **capacityOptimised** - the pool with the optimal capacity for the number of instances

<br>

***Spot Fleets allow us to automatically request Spot Instances with the lowest price.***