# **RDS Security - Encryption.**

There are different types of encryption:
* At rest encryption:
    * Possibility to encrypt the master & read replicas with AWS KMS - AES-256 encryption.
    * Encryption has to be defined at launch time.
    * **If the master is not encrypted, the read replicas cannot be encrypted.**
    * Transparent Data Encrpytion (TDE) is available for Oracle and SQL Server.
* In-flight encryption:
    * SSL certificates to encrypt data to RDS flight.
    * Provide SSL options with trust certificate when connecting to the database.
    * To enforce SSL:
        * Postgres - rds.force_ssl = 1 in the RDS Console (set parameter groups).
        * MySQL - Within the DB we can run SQL commands such as "GRANT USAGE ON ... TO ... REQUIRE SSL".

## **RDS Encryption Operations.**

* Snapshots of un-encrypted RDS databases are un-encrypted.
* Snapshots of encrypted RDS databases are encrypted.
* Can copy an un-encrypted snapshot and turn it into an encrypted one.

How do we encrypt an un-encrypted RDS database?

* Create a snapshot of the un-encrypted database.
* Copy the snapshot and enable encryption for the snapshot.
* Restore the database from the encrypted snapshot.
* Migrate applications to the new database and delete the old database.

## **Network & IAM.**

* Network Security:
    * RDS databases are usually deployed within a private subnet, not a public one.
    * RDS security works by leveraging security groups (the same concepts as for EC2 instances) - it controls which IP / security group can communicate with RDS.
* Access Management:
    * IAM policies help control who can manage AWS RDS (through the RDS API).
    * Traditional username / password combinations can be used to login to the database.
    * IAM-based authentication can be used to login to RDS MySQL & PostgreSQL databases.

## **IAM Authentication.**

* IAM database authentication works with MySQL & PostgreSQL.
* You don't need a password, just an authentication token obtained through IAM and RDS API calls.
* Authentication token has a lifetime of 15 minutes.
* Benefits:
    * Network in/out must be encrypted using SSL.
    * IAM to centrally manage users instead of a database.
    * Can leverage IAM Roles and EC2 Instance profiles for easy integration.

## **Summary.**

* Encryption at rest:
    * Is done only when you first create the DB instance.
    * or: Unencrypted DB -> Snapshot -> Copy snapshot as encrypted -> Create DB from snapshot.
* Your responsibility:
    * Check ports / IP / security group inbound rules in DB's security group.
    * In-database user creation and permissions or manage through IAM.
    * Creating a database with or without public access.
    * Ensure parameter groups or DB is configured to only allow SSL connections.
* AWS responsibility:
    * No SSH access to instance.
    * No manual DB patching.
    * No manual OS patching.
    * No way to audit the underlying instance.
