# **ElastiCache Overview.**

The same way RDS is used to managed Relational Databases... ElastiCache is used to get managed Redis or Memcached.

* Caches are in-memory databases with really high performance & low latency.
* This helps reduce load on datbases for read intensive workloads.
* Helps make your application stateless.
* AWS takes care of OS maintenance, patching, setup, backups etc.
* **Using ElastiCache involves heavy application code changes**.

## **DB Cache Architecture.**

* Application queries ElastiCache, if the query has already been done & stored in ElastiCache this is called a "Cache hit" - resulting in high performance results.
* If the query doesn't result in a "Cache hit" (called a "Cache miss"), i.e. it hasn't been performed before, then the query will run on the RDS instance & store it in the ElastiCache.
* This helps relieve load of your RDS instance.
* Cache must have an invalidation stategy to make sure that the most recent or up-tp-date data is in there.

## **User Session Store (Stateless).**

* The user uses any use-applications to write session data to ElastiCache.
* The user then (if they get re-directed to another instance of our application) can retrieve the session data from ElastiCache.
* User is already logged in (this is stateless).

## **Redis vs Memcached.\***

It is important to know the difference between Redis and Memcached at a high level for the exam.

* **Redis:**
    * Multi AZ with auto-failover.
    * Read Replicas to scale reads to have high availability.
    * Data Durability using AOF persistence.
    * Backup & restore features.
* **Memcached:**
    * Multi-node for partitioning of data (called sharding).
    * No replicas or high availability.
    * Non persistent.
    * No backup & restore.
    * This is known as "Multi-threaded architecture".