# **EC2.**

## **Private vs Public IP (IPv4).**

* Networking has two forms of IP, IPv4 & IPv6.
    * IPv4: 1.160.10.240
    * IPv6: 3ffe:1900:4545:3:200:f8ff:fe21:67cf

In this course we will only ever be using IPv4.

* IPv4 is the most common format used online.
* IPv6 is newer and solves a lot of problems for the IoT (Internet of things).
* IPv4 allows for 3.7 billion different addresses in the public space.
* IPv4: [0-255].[0-255].[0-255].[0-255]

## **Fundamental Differences.**

* Public IP (IPv4):
    * The machine can be identified on the internet (www).
    * Must be unique across the whole web (no two machines can have the same public IP).
    * Can be geo-located easily.

* Private IP:
    * Private IP means the machine can only be identified on the private network it is on.
    * The IP must be unique across the network.
    * BUT two different private networks (i.e. two different companies) can have the same IPs.
    * Machines connect to the internet (www) using a NAT device & internet gateway (also known as a proxy).
    * Only a specified range on IPs can be used as private IP.

## **Elastic IPs.**

* When you stop & start an EC2 instance, it can change its public IP.
* If you need to have a fixed public IP for your instance, you need an **Elastic IP**.
* An Elastic IP is a public IPv4 IP that you own as long as you don't delete it.
* You can attach it to one instance at a time.
* You can mask the failure of an instance or software by rapidly remapping the address to another instance in your account.
* You can only have 5 Elastic IP in your account (can ask AWS to increase this).
* Overall, try to avoid Elastic IP:
    * They often reflect poor architectural decisions.
    * Instead, use a random public IP & register a DNS name to it.
    * Or, we can use a **Load Balancer**, which is recommended.
