# **EC2 Advanced Topics.\***

## **EC2 Nitro.**

* This is the name of the underlying platform for the next generation of EC2 instances.
* This is a new virtualisation technology.
* This allows for better performance:
    * Gives better networking options (HPC, IPv6).
    * **Higher speed EBS (Nitro is necessary for 64,000 EBS IOPS - max is 32,000 on non-Nitro).\***
    * Better underlying security.
    * Instance types example:
        * Anything virtualised: C5, C6, D3, G4, I3, M5 ...
        * Bare metal: a1.metal, c5.metal ...

## **vCPU.**

* Multiple threads can run on one CPU (multithreading).
* Each thread is represented as a virtual CPU (vCPU).
* Example: m5.2xlarge
    * 4 CPUs
    * 2 threads per CPU.
    * **This means that we will get 8 vCPU in total.**

You can optimise the CPU options.

* EC2 instances come with a combination of RAM and vCPU.
* But in some rare cases, you may want to change the vCPU options:
    * **# of CPU cores** - you can decrease it (helpful if you need high RAM and low number of CPU) to decrease licensing costs.
    * **# of threads per core** - disable multithreading to have only 1 thread per CPU. This is useful for high performance computing (HPC) workloads.
* Only specified during instance launch.

## **Capacity Reservations.**

* Capacity reservations ensure that you have EC2 capacity when needed.
* Manual or planned end-dates for reservations.
* No need for 1 or 3 year commitment.
* Capacity access is immediate, you get billed as soon as it starts.
* You need to specify:
    * The availability zone in which to reserve the capacity.
    * The number of instances for which to reserve the capacity.
    * The instance attributes, including the instance type, tenancy and platform/OS.
* Capacity reservations can be combined with Reserve Instances & Savings Plans for cost saving.
