# **EBS.**

## **What is an EBS Volume?**

* EBS stands for **Elastic Block Store** & is a network drive that you can attach to your instances whilst they run.
* It allows instances to persist (or store) data, even after termination.
* They are bound to a specific availability zone.
* EBS Volumes can be attached to more than 1 instance using the "multi-attach" feature.
* On the free tier we get 30 GB of free EBS Storage of type General Purpose (SSD) or Magnetic per month.

A reminder that EBS is a **network drive**, not a physical drive, this means that:
* EBS uses the network to communicate, meaning there might be a bit of latency.
* They can be detached from an EC2 instance and attached to another instance quickly (good for fail-overs).
* To move an EBS volume from one AZ to another, you first need to take a snapshot of it.
* It has a provisioned capacity (size in GBs and IOPs) - also means you have to state the capacity in advance (this can be increased over time).

## **Delete on termination.\***

In the AWS Console under EBS, there is a "Delete on Termination" attribute. This is automatically ticked for the root volume, but not for any additional volumes we create.

* This attribute will control the EBS behaviour when the EC2 instance terminates.
    * By default, the root EBS volume is deleted.
    * By default, any other attached EBS volume is not deleted.
* This can be controlled in the console or through the CLI.
* **Use case, preserve the root volume when an instance is terminated** - Untick this attribute.

## **EBS Snapshots.**

* EBS Snapshots are used to make a backup of your EBS volume at a specific point in time.
* It is not necessary to detach a volume before you take a snapshot, **but it is recommended**.
* This feature is especially useful if we want to copy snapshts from EBS volumes across Availability Zones or Regions.