# **EBS Volume Types.**

* EBS Volumes come is 6 types.
    * **gp2 / gp3 (SSD)** - general purpose SSD volumes that balances price and performance for a wide variety of workloads.
    * **io1 / io2 (SSD)** - highest performance SSD volume for mission-critical low-latency or high-throughput workloads.
    * **st1 (HDD)** - low cost HDD volume designed for frequently avvessed, throughput intensive workloads.
    * **sc1 (HDD)** - lowest cost HDD volume designed for less frequently accessed workloads.

* EBS Volumes are characterised in:
    * Size.
    * Throughput.
    * IOPS (I/O Operations per Sec).

* **Only gp2/gp3 and io1/io2 can be used as boot volumes.**

## **General Purpose SSD.\***

These boot volumes are:

* Cost effective, low-latency.
* Can be used for system boot volumes, such as VMs, dev. & test environments.
* 1 GiB - 16 TiB.
* gp3 (newer):
    * Baseline of 3000 IOPS and throughput of 125 MiB/s.
    * **Can increase IOPS up to 16000 and throughput up to 1000 MiB/s independently.**
* gp2 (older):
    * Small gp2 volumes can burst IOPS to 3000.
    * Size of the volume and IOPS are linked, max IOPS is 16000.
    * 3 IOPS per GB means at 5334 GB we are at max IOPS.
    * **IOPS & throughput are linked.**

## **Provisioned IOPS (PIOPS) SSD.\***

PIOPS - Provisioned IOPS.

These boot volumes are suitable for the following use cases:

* Critical business applications with sustained IOPS performance.
* Applications that require more than 16000 IOPS.
* **Great for database workloads (sensitive to storage performance and consistency).**
* io1/io2 (4 GiB - 16 TiB):
    * Max PIOPS: 64000 for Nitro EC2 instances and 32000 for others.
    * Can increase PIOPS independently from storage size.
    * io2 have more durability and more IOPS per GiB at the same price as io1.
* io2 Block Express (4 GiB - 64 TiB):
    * Sub-millisecond latency.
    * Max PIOPS of 256000 with and IOPS:GiB ration of 1000:1.
* **Supports EBS Multi-Attach.**

## **Hard Disk Drives.\***

* Cannot be a boot volume.
* 125 MiB to 16 TiB.
* Throughput Optimised HDD (st 1).
    * Suitable for Big data & Data warehousing, as well as log processing.
    * Max througput of 500 MiB/s & max IOPS of 500.
* Cold HDD (sc1):
    * For data that is infrequently accessed.
    * Scenarios where the lowest cost is important.
    * Max throughput of 250 MiB/s & max IOPS of 250.
