# **High Availability & Scalability.**

## **Scalability:**

* Means that an application / system can handle greater loads by adapting.
* There are two kinds of scalability:
    * **Vertical Scalability.**
    * **Horizontal Scalability** or **elasticity.**

**Scalability is linked but slightly different to having High Availability.**

### **Vertical Scalability.**

* Vertical Scalability means increasing the size of the instance.
* For example, our application runs on a t2.micro, however, we want to scale our application vertically so we run it on a t2.large instead.
* Vertical Scalability is very common for non distributed systems such as databases.
* RDS & ElastiCache are services that can scale vertically.
* There's usually a **hardware limit** on how much you can scale vertically.

### **Horizontal Scalability.**

* Horizontal Scalability means increasing the number of instances or systems for our application.
* This is very common for web applications / modern applications.
* It's easy to horizontally scale applications due to cloud computing because of things like EC2.

## **High Availability.**

* High Availability usually goes hand in hand with horizontal scaling.
* High Availability means running our applications / systems in at least 2 data centres i.e. 2 AZ's.
* The goal of high Availability is to survive a data centre loss.
* High Availability can be passive (for RDS in Multi-AZ for example).
* High Availability can be active.

## **What does this mean in respect to EC2?**

* Vertical Scaling - increase in instance size (scale up or down).
* Horizontal Scaling - increase the numbers of instances (scale out or in).
* High Availability - run instances for the same application across multiple AZ's.
    * Auto Scaling group multi AZ.
    * Load Balancer multi AZ.