# **Auto Scaling Groups - Scaling Policies.**

We have two different types of scaling policies.

## **Dynamic Scaling Policies.**

We have 3 different types of Dynamic Scaling policies:
* **Target Tracking Scaling.**
    * Most simple and easiest to set up.
    * e.g. I want the average ASG CPU to stay at around 40%.
* **Simple / Step Scaling.**
    * When a Cloudwatch alarm is triggered (e.g. CPU Usage > 70%), add 2 EC2 instances or units.
    * When a Cloudwatch alarm is triggered (e.g. CPU Usage < 30%), remove 1 EC2 instance or unit.
* **Scheduled Actions.**
    * Anticipate scaling based on known usage patterns.
    * e.g. increase the min capacity to 10 at 5pm on Fridays.

## **Predictive Scaling.**

* **Predictive Scaling** - continuously forecast load and schedule scaling ahead of time based on historical loads / traffic.

## **Good metrics to scale on.**

* **CPUUtilization** - average CPU Utilisation across your instances.
* **RequestCountPerTarget** - to make sure the number of requests per EC2 instances is available.
* **Average Network In / Out** - if your application is network bound. i.e. requires upload / downloads.
* **Any custom metric** - that is pushed to Cloudwatch.

## **Scaling Cooldowns.**

* After a scaling activity happens, you are in a cooldown period (default is 300 seconds).
* During the cooldown period, the ASG will not launch or terminate additional instances (allowing for metrics to stabalise).
* Advice - Use a ready-to-use AMI to reduce configuration time in order to be serving requests faster and reduce the cooldown period.