# **Auto Scaling Groups for Solution Architects.**

There are 2 more things we need to know:

## **Termination.**

* There is an ASG "Default Termination Policy.
* Here is a simplified version of this:
    * Firstly, find the AZ which has the most number of instances.
    * If there are multiple instances in the AZ to choose from, delete the one with the oldest launch configuration.
* **ASG tries to balance the number of instances across AZ's by default.**

## **Lifecycle Hooks.**

* By default, as soon as an instance is launched in an ASG it's in service.
* You have the ability to perform extra steps before the instance goes in service (Pending state).
* This helps us check extra dependencies, install extra software before an instance goes live.
* You also have the ability to perform some actions before the instance is terminated (Terminating state).
* This helps us extract valuable information such as logs or files from an EC2 instance before we terminate it.

## **Launch Templates and Launch Configurations.**

**Both of them allow:**
* Specify the AMI of your EC2 image.
* Specify the instance type.
* Specify an SSH key-pair, security groups and tags.

**Launch Configurations (legacy):**
* Must be re-created every single time.

**Launch Template (newer):**
* Can have multiple versions.
* Create parameter subsets (partial configuration for re-use and inheritance).
* Provision using both On-Demand and Spot instances (or both).
* Can use T2 unlimited burst feature.
* **Recommended by AWS moving forward.**
