# **Application Load Balancer.**

* Application load balancers operate at layer 7 (HTTP).
* Load balancing to multiple HTTP applications across machines (also known as target groups).
* Load balancing to multiple applications on the same machine (e.g. containers).
* Support for HTTP/2 and WebSocket.
* Supports redirects (from HTTP to HTTPS for example).
* Support routing tables to different target groups:
    * Routing based on path in URL (example.com/*users* & example.com/*posts*.)
    * Routing based on hostname in URL (*one.example.com* & *other.example.com*.)
    * Routing based on query string & headers (example.com/users?*id=123&order=false*.)

**ALB's are a great fit for micro services and container-based applications - think Docker!!! This os because they have a port mapping feature that allows redirection to a dynamic port in ECS (Elastic Container Service).**

In comparison to the classic load balancer, we'd need to use one per application.

## **Target Groups.**

What can target groups be?

* EC2 instances (can be managed by an Auto Scaling Group) - HTTP.
* ECS tasks (managed by ECS itself) - HTTP.
* Lambda functions - HTTP request is translated into a JSON event.
* IP addresses - must be private IPs.

ALB can route to multiple target groups & health checks are at the target group level.

## **Good to knows.**

* Similar to the classic load balancer, we still get a fixed hostname (xxx.region.elb.amazonaws.com).
* The application servers don't see the IP of the client directly.
    * The true IP of the client is inserted in the header **X-Forwarded-For**.
    * We can also get Port (X-Forwarded-Port) and Proto (X-Forwarded-Proto).